Hello and welcome to your
iOS App Performance Hitlist.
I'm Michael Jurewitz,
the evangelist responsible for
developer tools and performance.
The best iOS apps are not only
beautiful and well designed,
they also launch quickly,
present a highly responsive interface,
and use memory efficiently.
Today,
we're going to focus on teaching you the
skills and techniques you need to know
to make your application perform great.
From working with the Time Profiler
and Core Animation instruments
to taking an in-depth look at how
your application is using memory,
you'll gain a better understanding of
how to use instruments to track down
performance issues and ship a better app.
So let's get started.
So obviously, we're here today to
talk about performance.
Now, I'm here to tell you that
performance is the number one most
important thing that you can pay
attention to in your application.
Beyond having a great design,
beyond having a great idea,
your app needs to perform wonderfully.
At the end of the day,
if you've got a bunch of pretty pixels
but your app performance is really,
really bad, no one's going to care that
your graphics look so good.
They're just going to be paying attention
to the poor performance of your app.
What is performance, you might be asking?
Well, performance is many things.
It's about being fast,
doing things before the user
even expects them to be finished.
It's about being responsive,
so that as you interact with the screen,
you're providing that kind
of feedback immediately.
And it's about being efficient.
It's about making sure that you're
using only the system resources
that you need to solve a task
and not going all over the place
using tons and tons of resources.
And more than anything,
performance matters because
your customers notice.
And they leave you things
like app reviews that say
things like slow and buggy,
crashes all the time,
and the dreaded one star.
You don't want to be a one star app,
so you need to be paying attention
to the performance of your
application and making sure that
you fix performance related issues.
And that's exactly what we're here
today to try to teach you how to do.
So, in this presentation,
we're going to show you how to
test and measure performance.
I'm going to show you how to
help your application launch
faster and figure out what may
be slowing down your launch time.
I'm going to show you how to reduce your
memory footprint and understand what
memory you're using in the first place.
And I'm going to show you how to identify
common graphics problems and fix them.
them.
So let's talk a bit about
measuring performance.
So first of all, what should you measure?
Well, the answer really is everything.
You need to be paying
attention to processing time,
to memory usage,
to graphics performance and correctness,
to disk IO, to battery life, all of it.
And the best part about all of this
is that you've got an application
to help you do that in Instruments.
Instruments is your one-stop shop
for all your performance needs.
It gives you a holistic view of your
application's performance so you
can see things like processing time,
memory, graphics, battery life,
all this information
together in one place,
side by side.
Now when it comes to techniques,
what kinds of techniques should you
be using when you measure performance?
Well, first and foremost, Don't guess.
No, no, actually I'm really,
really serious about this.
Don't guess.
You've got a fantastic tool that's
going to help you pinpoint exactly
what's slow in your application,
exactly what needs work.
So even though you architected the app,
even though you wrote all this code,
use the tool and make sure the
things that you're trying to fix,
the things you're trying to
change are actually the problem.
You don't want to waste time trying
to fix something that actually
wasn't the problem all along.
Okay, now beyond not guessing,
you want to make sure
that you focus on simple,
repeatable, real-world actions.
This is really important,
the real-world actions part.
You want to focus on all of the
different workflows a user is going to
be going through in your application.
You want to be timing those,
measuring those,
looking at how things like
memory changes over time.
You want to be trying to pinpoint what
are the things that need improvement.
Then you want to make some changes
and retest those same actions.
Retesting is really important.
You don't want to go and make
changes and actually end up
accidentally making things worse.
And more than anything,
you want to keep repeating
this until it just feels right.
You've got to make sure that
your application just feels
like the greatest thing to use,
that it's fast, that it's efficient,
that it doesn't stutter when you scroll,
etc.
That it just feels like you've put
lots of love and care into making
it a fantastic user experience.
Now, with all the work that I do with
third-party applications and all the
opportunities that I have to see how
apps are really performing in the wild,
it really comes down to three
main areas that contribute to
applications either behaving poorly
or seeming to have poor performance.
It comes down to three things
that you want to make sure that
you do in your development.
You want to avoid blocking work.
You want to make sure that
you minimize memory usage.
And you want to make sure
that you draw efficiently.
So let's go ahead and hop right
into the first one and talk
about avoiding blocking work.
Perhaps the most important
part of avoiding blocking
work is to launch quickly.
This is your user's first
impression of your application,
and it immediately communicates
so much about the speed,
the quality, the care,
and the craftsmanship that you've
put into your application and
all of its user experiences.
So you really need to be
hyper-focused on this scenario.
From the moment that user taps your
application on the home screen,
this is the very first opportunity
for you to say hello to them,
for you to show them the
work that you've done.
So you want to be focusing on that
first launch performance and having
that be the best it can possibly be.
You also want to be paying attention
to the multitasking resume as well.
This is an incredibly common
way that users are going to
come back to your application.
You want to make sure that you don't have
performance problems hiding in resume.
Now the important thing to remember
is that timing is everything.
The OS is constantly
watching your application.
And if you're too slow to
get certain things done,
iOS may just quit your application.
So, for example,
you've got 20 seconds for
your application to launch.
Now really what this comes down to is
this is your application launching,
getting through application did
finish launching with options,
and then beginning to
service the event loop.
Now I'm here to tell you if your
app is taking anywhere near 20
seconds to get all this done,
it's time to open up instruments and it's
time to figure out what's taking so long.
Great launch times should be 2-3 seconds.
before the user even notices
that they've been waiting.
Now at the same time,
you need to be paying attention
to things like resume,
suspend, and quit.
When your app resumes
back to the foreground,
you only have 10 seconds to
begin servicing that event loop,
so you need to make sure you're
being fast and efficient.
As your application goes
into the background,
you only have 10 seconds to do things
like save any files that need saving,
or do any additional
cleanup that you need to do.
Again, you need to make sure you're
being as efficient as possible.
And when it comes to launching quickly,
you need to make sure that
you're measuring correctly.
Most importantly,
you need to make sure that you're
measuring with realistic data sets.
It doesn't do any good if any of
the performance profiling you're
ever doing is on a debug version of
your application with absolutely no
data for your application to load,
or with your application simply
connected to the debugger in Xcode.
It's actually really important to note,
anytime you're debugging
your application,
Xcode specifically tells the OS not
to quit your app if it takes too long.
The assumption is, you're debugging,
things might take a while.
So it's really important for you to put
your application on your device and take
it out in the real world and use it.
Now when it comes to these data sets,
you need to make sure that you're
getting a good estimate of what you
think is a moderate amount of data
that a user will probably have.
And then up that amount of data by 10,
100, or 1,000 times.
So that you can actually see,
what are the problems?
What are the weak points
in your application?
What's going to really take
the longest time to get done?
And to do all of this,
you want to make sure that you're
using the time profiler instrument.
Now when it comes to launching quickly,
there are a few really
important rules to live by.
And really,
you want to be asking yourself
these questions every time you
look at the work that you're doing,
an application did finish
launching with options,
or as part of application resume.
The first question should be,
is this work that you're doing
essential for loading the most
basic main user interface?
If not, defer it.
Do it later.
Use something like Dispatch Async.
The next question:
Does it involve parsing, loading data,
or network activity?
Well, first and foremost,
you should never be doing any
of that work on the main thread.
Second of all,
these are great candidates to defer.
Take this work, wrap it in a block,
dispatch async it onto
a background queue.
Finally, it's important to remember that
progress indicators are your friend.
Now, what I'm not suggesting here is that
you go and turn every view in your
application into a progress indicator
while you wait for it to load.
That would be a very bad idea.
Instead,
you should consider doing something
like just putting up a single
progress indicator for the user,
so they know that you're doing work
if you need some additional time to,
say, parse a file,
load in some web content, etc.
The key is that you want your application
to already be able to be interacted with,
and it's okay for you to do that.
It's okay for you to tell the user, "Hey,
we're still working on things."
As long as that doesn't take too long.
Alright, so now let's hop into a demo and
take a look at launching quickly
and how to figure out why an app
may be taking too long to launch.
Okay, so we're going to start by
taking a look at our iPad first.
Now, we want to be paying attention
to startup and the application
we're going to be using is this
inauspiciously named Bad Startup.
So, let's go ahead and tap on
this app and take a look.
Now our app is launching,
and it's still launching,
still launching, still launching.
Who knows, will it ever finish?
There we go.
Okay,
so our app finally finished launching.
That took a long time, right?
If this was your application
and this was your customers
that had to wait that long,
they'd be pretty disappointed.
So, let's go ahead and switch back to
the Mac and take a look at just
exactly what's taking so long.
Now, over here on the Mac,
there's one thing I want to
show you first and foremost.
In Xcode 4.3,
Xcode is now just a single dot app.
And Instruments,
the application we're going
to be using for looking at all
this performance information,
is now actually a part of Xcode.
So, to get to Instruments,
we're going to go to the Xcode menu
and select Open Developer Tool and
then select Instruments.
This is going to launch Instruments
and we've got our usual interface
that we're used to working with.
Now,
one thing you can do in the dock is go
ahead and double tap on Instruments,
go to Options and select Keep in Dock.
This is a way that you can just keep a
reference to Instruments around the next
time you just want to launch it directly.
Now anytime you're working with
any sort of timing information,
you want to be working with
the Time Profiler instrument.
So let's go ahead and choose that.
Now with this instrument selected,
we want to go ahead and select our
Bad Startup application from our iPad.
I'm going to go ahead and
make the window a little bit
bigger here and click Record.
Now what's happening over on our
iPad is the application is launching,
it's doing a bunch of work,
and it's taken a long
time to do that work.
If we look back at the Mac,
and specifically at instruments,
we can actually see a visual
representation of this
work as it's completing.
Alright,
so our app just finished launching,
so I'm going to go ahead
and stop the trace.
Okay, so now we have all of this
data here for us to work with.
And typically for most folks,
the problem is you take a measurement,
but then the problem becomes,
what do you do now that
you have this data?
How do you actually look
at this information?
So, let me show you a bit
about how to do that.
First and foremost,
anytime you're using Time Profiler,
you only want to be paying attention to
specific windows of time where you are
doing the things that you care about.
In this case,
we really only care about the window of
time where our application was launching.
And so, if you hold down the Option key
and click and drag in the timeline,
you can select just the window
of time that you care about,
so you can focus on just that data.
Next, we really want to be doing with
some work here in the table view,
but there's not a lot for us
to be working with right now.
So, let's try to dig in and
see what we can do here.
Now,
new in instruments as part of Xcode 4.3,
you'll actually have the call
tree uninverted from the start.
So, if you're still using an
older version of instruments,
you may see something that
looks a little bit different.
The most important thing is that you
want to make sure that you have separate
by thread checked here on the left,
and that you also have
invert call tree unchecked.
This is the key for
where you want to start.
Now, looking back here at the table view,
let's go ahead and add a little
bit of information for ourselves.
One of the first things that
I like to do is pull out what's
called the self percentage.
Now, the self percentage is what's
going to tell us the amount of time
that we spent in that particular
method itself in the table view,
as opposed to, say,
any of the other methods
that it called through to.
Now when it comes to paying
attention to launch performance,
what really matters is the time
that you spend in the main thread.
So now at this point what you really want
to be doing is paying attention to this
percentage right here under running time.
This is the total percentage
of time that was spent in the
main thread and everything
else that it called through to.
So using just the arrow
keys and the keyboard,
let's just start stepping through
here and going down the stack.
You can see one of the first
places that we started was main.
This is the main entry
point to your application.
Now it's fairly common as you're
going through this kind of information
to see a bunch of this framework
code and get kind of scared.
What is this CFRunLoop run-in
mode and CFRunLoop run-specific?
Well, the most important part is that
you just want to continue to
follow this large percentage,
so let's just continue to do that.
All of this is just the details of what
happens to be happening in the framework.
Now, as we keep going here,
we're eventually going to
reach some of our own code.
And we can see as we kept
going down the chain,
boom, here we are,
AppDelegate application did
finish launching with options.
And we see that it took 33.2% of
the total time as compared to 34%
of the total time in our application
that was spent in the main thread.
So clearly,
this is a huge percentage of the time
that we're spending trying to start up.
Now, as we take a look at this menu,
you can see that this is the first
point that we actually delve into some
additional code in our own application.
Now, we can see that our view controllers
init function was responsible for
about 33% of our total startup time.
That's a large percentage,
all things considered.
Now, when you're looking at startup time,
it can be really useful to just hone
in on the actual code that you wrote.
And so,
one of the things you should know is that
these arrows on the very right of the
different frames that you're looking at,
you can actually click on.
And what this does is takes that
particular frame and all of the things
that it called through to and rebases
them at 100%. So now you're basically
just looking at the relative impact
of all of the code that you wrote
that was being called by that method.
So once we do that,
we can see that that view controller
init function was responsible
for 99.4% of the time that we're
actually spending an application
did finish launching with options.
So, as we look at all the information
that we called through to here,
we can begin to see all of the system
APIs that were involved in this slowdown.
Now,
remember all of the things that I told
you that you shouldn't be doing as part
of application did finish launching.
We see here, for example,
we've got an NSData,
data with contents of URL,
taking 50% of our time.
We've got UIImage, image with data,
taking 17% of our time.
And NSJSON serialization,
JSON object with data,
taking 10% of our time.
So, we've got potentially network calls,
loading of large information,
and parsing of data,
all happening as part
of application launch.
That's the last thing
that we want to be seeing.
So, now, with this information,
we know what we need to go and
try to improve in our application.
But we can actually go one step further.
If we go ahead and we
double-click on View Content,
we can actually go to the
View Controller and knit.
We actually can get a view where we
can see exactly what percentage of
time was being spent in our actual
source code that we had written in
application did finish launching.
Here, you get a chance to actually see
how all of these different methods
fit together and where we were
actually spending all of this time.
In fact, you can see that our NSData,
data with contents of URL,
was in fact going out and
grabbing a remote resource.
And that was responsible for loading.
And so, when you take both of those
and combine them together,
that's 72% of our startup time right
there in just that single line of code.
As we look up here,
we can find that actually the parsing
of our JSON didn't take that long,
all things considered.
But again,
this is still something that we don't
want to be doing on the main thread.
So, now, armed with this information,
we can go back into application
did finish launching with options,
figure out what pieces
that we can actually use.
What pieces that we can
actually delay or pull out.
All of this loading from the
network and parsing is a great
candidate for doing asynchronously
with Grand Central Dispatch.
And we can help our
application load a lot faster.
So, we just had a great look at why an
application was taking so long to launch.
So, remember,
the system will terminate apps that take
too long to do basic things like launch,
resume, suspend, etc.
Make sure you're collecting
data with Time Profiler.
And really, the name of the game is
trying to do less work.
Figure out how you can take the
work that you need to be done and
either turn it into smaller tasks
or tasks that can be done later.
Above all else,
don't block the main thread.
And just make sure that you optimize,
optimize, optimize.
All right, now let's talk about
minimizing memory usage.
So it's important to remember that
iOS is not a desktop operating system.
It's very, very powerful,
but you still have limited
memory to work with.
These are, after all,
all embedded devices.
iOS has virtual memory,
but there is no swap file.
Any of the memory that you
allocate has to stay physically
resident in the RAM on the device.
To help out with that,
we have low memory notifications so
that your application can know when the
system is getting low on memory and when
it needs your help to give up resources.
Now reducing the memory footprint in
your application is absolutely important.
Because iOS has no swap file,
all of that memory that you're
using counts against you,
as well as all of the basic tasks the
operating system is trying to get done.
And it's important to remember
that under memory pressure,
the OS is going to start
terminating applications.
So let's take a quick
look at how that works.
So in iOS 5,
as the amount of dirty memory
on the system increases,
you first hit a warning level.
This is the point where the OS begins
to exit background applications.
If the total memory usage on
the device continues to go up,
we finally hit an urgent level.
This is when the frontmost app is warned,
and this is your opportunity
to respond to this memory
warning by freeing up resources.
Now if memory usage continues to grow,
then eventually we hit a critical point,
and this is where the frontmost
app will be exited by the system.
Now it's important to realize this
behavior is subtly different from
the way that things worked on iOS 4.
On iOS 4,
as memory usage got greater and greater,
the frontmost app would be
notified at the same time as
the background applications.
Now what ended up happening is
that it became a pretty decent
strategy as a frontmost app to
simply ignore the memory warnings,
because you could probably count on some
poor background app being killed instead.
But now on iOS 5, when background apps
have all been exited,
we warn the frontmost app,
which is a way of saying
that as the frontmost app,
your head is on the chopping block.
You're the last one that we can
ask to help be better about memory.
so you need to make sure you're
responding to memory warnings.
Now, memory can also have a big
impact on responsiveness.
Spikes in memory usage may cause other
delays that seem rather unlikely,
but actually can have a big
impact on your application.
So, as your application is moving along,
if it has a sudden spike in the
amount of memory it's using,
maybe you went and parsed some
large file from the internet,
the OS may choose to actually evict some
of your executable code from memory,
some pieces of your actual app.
Now, this is fine in the short term to
try to get back additional resources,
but eventually your app
needs to keep running,
and that needs to be
read back into memory.
And that paging back into
memory can take time,
and it can cause jitters in
scrolling and other sluggishness.
Now Jetsam is the process on
iOS that watches for memory
pressure and terminates apps
that have excessive memory usage.
Now in a multitasking world like
we've been on for iOS 4 and iOS 5,
it's even more important for you
to make sure that you're paying
attention to memory and only
using the amount that you need.
Most importantly,
apps that have a small memory
footprint will be preserved longer
in the background than larger apps.
If you think about it,
when we start quitting
background processes,
we want the biggest bang for our buck.
So we're going to go after
processes in the background
that are using the most memory.
So as your application suspends,
try to get rid of as much as you can
so you can stay safe and stay low.
Now when it comes to
reducing memory footprint,
there really are three
areas you want to focus on.
Memory spikes, memory leaks,
and abandoned memory.
Memory spikes are periods of time where
you have very large allocations that
you make in very short periods of time.
Again, the example we gave earlier was
maybe parsing a file that you
downloaded from the internet.
You want to try to avoid these for
exactly what we just spoke about
because that amount of allocation may
cause the system to have to get rid
of other necessary things in memory.
Or if you spike too much,
the system may not be able
to honor your request at all,
in which case your
application may get quit.
For memory leaks,
this is memory that you've allocated,
but at some point you
lost a reference to it.
And the worst part about these
kinds of things is that because
you allocated this memory,
it's currently counting against
you and against your process.
But because you don't have
a reference to it anymore,
you have no way to clean it up.
As I like to tell developers,
the right number of leaks is zero leaks.
You always want to make sure you track
these down and make them go away.
A third kind of thing you want to
pay attention to is abandoned memory.
This is sort of similar to a leak,
but you can think of it as
memory that you've allocated,
you still have a reference to it,
but for whatever reason
you don't reuse it again.
Maybe this might be a cache of some set
of views or other data that you create
once and then just keep on recreating as
opposed to ever actually cleaning it up.
So now, let's look at a demo of using the
memory instruments in action so you
can figure out how your application
is using memory in the first place.
Okay,
so let's take a look at the memory usage
for another one of our applications.
We're going to go ahead
and open up Instruments.
And we're now, instead of choosing one
of our default templates,
going to go down to the
user directory here.
And I'm choosing a template
that I created for myself
called Jury Allocations.
Now, this template isn't special aside
from the fact that it contains a bunch
of different instruments that I like
to work with whenever I'm looking
at the memory usage of an application.
So as you can see, we simply have the
Allocations instrument,
the VM Tracker instrument,
the Leaks instrument,
and Activity Monitor.
And I'll be going through
and talking about each one of
these and why they're useful.
Now, I've got an application on
my iPad called The Elements.
So I'm going to go ahead
and from Instruments,
select that app and start profiling it.
I'll hit Record.
And now,
let's go take a look at it on the iPad.
So as you can see, this application is
pretty straightforward.
It's a table view with a
listing of all of the elements.
And if we go ahead and
we pick one of these,
let's say, "Firmium" here,
we slide over to the side,
and the application's going to
load some additional information
on that particular element.
So we've got some information
being loaded in here.
We'll just wait a moment
for it to show up.
And we see we've got the
Wikipedia entry for Fermium.
Now let's go through and do
this a couple more times.
We can take a look at gold, why not?
We'll load in all of this
information for gold.
And we see we've got now
the Wikipedia page for gold.
Now I want to focus back on
instruments and specifically in the
trace that we see that's going on.
I'm going to continue to use the
elements and I want you to pay
specific attention to what's happening
with the allocations instrument.
So I'm going to select helium,
sure why not, that's a fun one.
We see the allocations shoot
up for our application.
I'm going to go back and now
choose a different element,
maybe we'll do something like Curium.
We see again we've got
our allocations shoot up.
I'm going to hit back.
And we'll repeat this at
least one more time here.
Now as we go back,
we'll go ahead and select, say, Carbon,
why not?
And we can see again that our
allocations continue to increase.
I'm going to go ahead
and stop the trace now,
and let's take a moment just to look
at what's going on in instruments.
Now as you're using your application,
if you find yourself able to basically
be doing the same thing over and
over again in your application,
and you see that your memory usage,
particularly as indicated by allocations,
continues to go up and up and up,
that's not exactly a good sign.
Typically,
when you're repeating the same action,
you might expect to see memory go up,
but then come back down once you're done,
and go up again when you repeat it,
but then come back down.
In this case, we can see that the memory
for our application just
keeps steadily marching up.
So let's go ahead and let's go
through each of the instruments
that we have here and show you how
you can use them to figure out what
might be causing this memory growth.
[Transcript missing]
Generally speaking,
you don't want to combine
memory instrumentation with
something like Time Profiler.
The memory instrumentation is
taking a trace of your application,
and that can have a big impact
on the amount of time it
takes for something to happen.
Activity Monitor is a
bit more lightweight,
so it's generally okay to
use with the Time Profiler.
Now normally if you saw
this kind of memory growth,
the first thing you'd want to
be taking a look at was leaks.
However, in this case,
we don't have any information to go on.
We can see that leaks didn't report
any information about any leaks.
That's kind of unfortunate because
usually when we see a leaked object here,
we can also find out what allocated
it and then hopefully figure out
why it's not getting cleaned up.
So in this case,
we're going to have to turn to a
couple other instruments to try to
figure out what might be going on.
So, let's now take a look at
the VM Tracker instrument.
Now, the VM Tracker instrument is the
most authoritative view of how
much memory your application is
using at any one point in time.
Now, we've got the VM Tracker instrument
set up to do automatic snapshotting of
our application every three seconds.
So, this is going to help us see,
every three seconds,
how that usage is changing over time.
Now the number that you want
to pay attention to whenever
you're looking at the memory
consumption for your application,
first you want to order
the table by resident size,
and then what you want to be paying
attention to is dirty resident memory.
This is memory that you've allocated,
you've changed it in some way,
and so it has to stay resident in
the physical RAM on the device.
And this number right here really is
the authoritative view of how much
memory your application is using.
Now we can see as we scrub
through time here that this
number does in fact change.
In fact,
we can see that earlier in the app,
the dirty resident was only
about 21 megabytes of memory.
But by the time we actually hit closer
to the end of using the application,
we're sitting closer to
45 megabytes of usage.
Now again, this is good in terms of
getting an authoritative view
of how much memory we're using,
but where is this memory coming from?
Well, let's take a look at the
allocations instrument.
Now if we look at the
allocations instrument,
we can see there's really a
rich set of information here.
One of the first things that will
pop out to you is the fact that
we've got these colored graphs here
showing you lots of information
about the types of allocations that
you are making over here on the left.
Now, the heuristic being used for
coloring these graphs is actually
pretty simple and straightforward.
Blue, generally speaking,
is something that looks fairly normal,
whereas red or pinkish is something that
you might want to be paying attention to.
Now,
in terms of how we color these things,
these graphs get colored
red for a number of reasons.
If we see that for a
certain allocation type,
say in this case a malloc of 48 bytes,
that you've made a ton of
these types of allocations,
but only a very few number of
objects are actually left over,
that could be a problem.
Maybe you're creating too
many temporary objects.
Maybe you could be just creating
a few of these and reusing them.
So this might be something you
might want to take a look at,
which is why we color it red.
At the same time,
if you've had a certain allocation type,
you've made a ton of these
types of allocations,
where you've allocated
a bunch of objects,
and a bunch of objects of that
particular type are still around,
that's something you also
might want to take a look at,
because maybe you're
leaking those objects.
Maybe you're holding onto them
longer than you would like,
and they're counting against
your overall memory usage.
Now, here in this case,
there's nothing that really jumps
out to us as being a problem.
I mean, we could see, for example,
that these malloc of 48 bytes
look somewhat interesting,
but they're not really a problem.
But let's take a closer look just
to see if there's anything to this.
Now if I go ahead and I click this
arrow here next to the malloc48 bytes,
I'm going to focus on just
the allocations that were made
of that particular category.
And if I go ahead and pull
out the extended detail view,
I can actually see the backtrace for
all of these different allocations.
Now as you might imagine,
there's a lot of information here.
If we scroll all the way
to the bottom of the list,
you can see we've got at least a
good 700 objects here that were
still alive at the end of our trace.
And this is an important point.
When you're working with
the allocations instrument,
sometimes you want to go and
work with the allocation lifespan
setting here on the left.
In this case, this is set up to filter to
show us only the objects that
are created and still living.
But in our case,
we actually had a lot of objects
that came out of the same category.
So we're going to go ahead and click this
arrow here next to the malloc48 bytes.
And if we go ahead and
click the add button,
we can see that the objects that came
out of the same category came and went.
So let's take a look at the objects
that were created and destroyed.
Now when we do that,
we see we've got much more
information to work with.
In fact,
there were about 25,000 objects that
were created and destroyed that matched
that particular allocation type.
So let's go ahead and
click the add button.
Now as we go through here we can see
that we've got a bunch of different
kinds of allocations happening.
In most cases these are happening
just as parts of system frameworks,
and there's not too much that we can
glean for what exactly may be going on.
We can see, for example,
that core animation was very,
very busy at some point as we
were using our application.
Again, probably helping us draw our
actual pixels to the screen.
So let's go ahead and back out of
here for a second and look at this
problem from a different viewpoint.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, so now we've got several different
measurements we've taken.
And you'll notice that between
each of these measurements,
Instruments is telling us how much heap
growth happened between each of these.
So let's focus on Heap Shot 2 here,
because this seems to have a lot of
information about having additional
objects that were still around.
Now as we take a look at
this particular heap shot,
we can see all of the
different allocation types.
Non-objects, CFStrings, CF basic hashes,
etc.
Now as we look at these non-object types,
we actually can get a chance
to see what the backtrace was
that led to these allocations.
Now, I'm just going to quickly
go through some of these,
and in this case we just kind of
want to be looking for some patterns.
We see, for example,
here on the right that we've
got a backtrace in WebCore.
And another backtrace that
goes through web core.
Another one that goes through web core.
There's a decent amount
of core animation drawing,
but we can see that we're actually
going through some backtraces
involving web core a decent amount.
Now, this should be interesting to
us because we know we're using
UI WebView in our application.
So maybe there's something to this.
Now, this is an important point
about memory analysis.
Sometimes you just have to look at the
data you have and begin to form a hunch
about how you had written the code and
what the data seems to be pointing at.
In this case, let's go ahead and go
back to our project here.
And through a bit of the
wonders of demo programming,
we can actually see that here in
our view controller's load view,
we were creating a UI WebView,
going off to Wikipedia to load it.
Adding that WebView to our view
controller and then failing
to release that WebView.
So in this case,
this ends up being a one-line fix.
We simply need to make sure since
we've added that WebView to a view
hierarchy that we also clean it up.
Now you may be wondering why
something like leaks didn't
find this particular leak.
And this is another important point.
Leaks is a conservative collector.
It tries to make sure that
anything that it tells you about,
it knows for sure is a leak.
In the case of views,
there's often limited information
that leaks can actually use to infer
about the life cycle of that view.
Views tend to have lots of other
objects that have references to them.
So in this case,
although leaks was not able to actually
show us that this view was leaking,
at least we were able to use the
allocations instrument to understand
what was actually the type of
memory that was still around,
and it pointed us in the right
direction to begin to look to
clean up in our own application.
Alright, so we just saw a great demo for
how to figure out where your
application is using memory.
So remember,
you really just want to make sure
that your application uses the
least amount of memory possible.
Avoid leaks, avoid abandoned memory,
avoid memory spikes,
and avoid heap growth.
Now,
let's talk about drawing efficiently.
Drawing efficiently is one of
the most important things that
you can do in your application.
Inefficient drawing wastes battery life,
it's incredibly noticeable to the user,
and it gives users a bad
impression of your application.
Some common problems that I see with
drawing really amount to drawing
too much transparent content,
drawing scaled content,
and drawing pixel misaligned content,
which we'll talk a little bit more about
exactly what that is in one moment.
And now, let's go to a demo with the
Core Animation Instrument to show
exactly how you can discover what's being
drawn inefficiently in your application.
Anytime you want to take a
look at graphics performance,
you want to be using the
Core Animation Instrument.
So, we're going to go ahead and select
the Core Animation Template here
in Instruments and hit Choose.
Now the Core Animation Instrument is
fairly interesting because it's one
of the few instruments where you don't
actually have to record any of its data.
Instead, we're just going to select
the Core Animation Instrument,
and you'll notice that we have a set
of debug options that we can work with.
Now for the rest of this demo,
we're going to focus on two of
these options in particular.
The one at the very top,
which is Color Blended Layers,
and one kind of in the middle
called Color Misaligned Images.
Now we've got an application
over on our iPad,
and let's go ahead and take
a look at that for a moment.
Now in Instruments,
all I'm going to do is check the
checkbox for Color Blended Layers.
Now when I do that,
you see that immediately the
data on the iPad changes.
You see everything has
been colored red and green.
Now the simple way to read this
anytime you're looking at your
application is that basically
red is bad and green is good.
Now specifically what you're
seeing for anything that's red
is you're seeing content that has
been marked as being transparent.
Now transparent content ends up being
particularly expensive to render.
Now the reason for this is that whenever
you're rendering transparent content,
you have to render what's on top,
followed by what's beneath that,
and what's beneath that,
and then figure out how all that
content should blend together.
That can be a very expensive operation.
And when you're doing something like
trying to scroll through a table view,
needing to continually recompute that
kind of information can really put
a strain on scrolling performance.
Now in this particular app,
we see that we've got some
UI labels that look like they've
been marked as transparent.
They've probably been given a
background of UI color clear color.
We also see that the background
for the entire app is transparent.
The entire table view cell has probably
been marked as being transparent,
which is why the very
back of it is red as well.
Now in addition to that,
we see these thumbnails that we're
working with also appear to be red.
Again,
this is likely because these images were
either told that they were transparent by
setting is opaque no on the image view,
or the images may actually
have an alpha channel.
Whenever you're trying to display
an image that has an alpha channel,
the OS looks at that,
assumes the image has an
alpha channel for a reason,
and will go ahead and render
that as a transparent image,
even if there doesn't actually
happen to be any transparency
in that particular image.
Now, when you're looking at this and
thinking of ways to correct this,
what might you do?
Well, first and foremost,
the background for the UI table
view cell could just be white color.
The background for the labels
could just be white color.
And when the user goes to
select a table view cell,
the OS will go ahead and
take a look at the label,
know that it can do
something special with that,
which in particular is, on selection,
it'll change the background
color of that label to white.
So you don't need to worry about having
your labels be transparent just to
support things like the selection color.
Now really the name of the game any time
you're working with transparency is that
you want to try to avoid less than about
a half screen's worth of total red area.
Once you get beyond about a half screen,
you're going to start dropping
frames any time you scroll.
Now dropping one or two frames as
compared to 60 frames per second
is not necessarily a huge deal.
But as you add more
and more transparency,
the problem is going to
compound and scrolling is going
to become even more jerky.
Alright, so that's color blended layers.
Now I want to take a look
at a different setting.
This is going to be
Color Misaligned Images.
So again,
all I'm going to do in Instruments
is check this setting for
Color Misaligned Images.
Now the first thing you'll notice is that
a bunch of things have turned yellow.
Now in this case,
we're doing some demos on our iPad here,
and we've actually scaled
up our user interface.
So if I go back to
just a 1x scale factor,
you'll see some of that yellow goes away.
So one of the things
Color Misaligned Images actually
shows us is scaled content.
You'll notice that things like the text,
images, etc.
became yellow when we zoomed up.
Now this can be very useful as you're
designing your application because
as you go in and look at content,
it may actually matter that
something turns out to be scaled.
In this case,
you can see we have this map
of a bunch of different photos.
If all of these are scaled,
this should raise the
question in our mind of,
why are they scaled?
Are these actually very big
images that we've just shrunk
down and rendered very small?
In which case,
we're actually wasting a bunch of memory
to try to display them in the first case?
Or are these actually images that were
very small and we've scaled them up?
In which case,
they're just not going to look good.
So enabling color misaligned images and
going hunting for things that are yellow
that you are responsible for drawing
is a great way to make sure that you're
actually drawing things efficiently.
It's also a great way to spot
things like non-retinographics.
you're doing work on
iPhone 4 or iPhone 4S.
Now one of the other things that
Color Misaligned Images actually
shows you are misaligned images.
In this case,
as we look at the Options panel
in our particular app here,
you see that we've got a graphic and some
text that shows up as magenta whenever
we enable Color Misaligned Images.
Now what this is showing us
specifically are views that have been
drawn at a non-integral location.
So let's talk about this for a second.
Any time you place a view
in the view hierarchy,
you give it a frame,
which is basically where you
want that view to draw itself.
Now a frame consists of a series
of floating point coordinates.
But it turns out that when you go to
draw these views to the actual screen,
there are physical pixels on each
device that need to light up to actually
draw that content to the screen.
So you can draw something
at a fractional location.
So say if you positioned
a view at 50.5 or 46.3,
what ends up happening is you
end up actually straddling
a set of physical pixels.
And so the OS has to partially light up
one side of those pixels and partially
light up another side of those pixels.
So your nice,
beautiful one pixel line is now sort
of one and a half to two anti-aliased.
So any place in your application
where you see magenta,
you want to go in and you want
to look for how you happen
to be positioning that view.
And you simply want to make
sure that you're positioning
it at an integer location.
So just lop off the decimal,
either floor or seal it so
that you make sure that you
actually get an integer value.
Now it's most common to see this
kind of thing when you're doing
things like trying to center an
image or split an image into two.
Or split an image into thirds,
for example.
You can see how you might end up
at a .5 offset or a .3 offset.
So any time you see
these misaligned images,
you want to make sure that you
go ahead and you correct them.
What's going to happen is your graphics
and your text that otherwise looked
blurry are actually going to look a whole
lot better and more crisp once they're
lined up with the physical pixels.
Okay, so we just saw a great demo of
using the Core Animation in the OS.
And we're going to go ahead and show you
how to use the Core Animation instrument
to figure out exactly how you're
drawing in your application.
So remember, avoid wasteful transparency.
Avoid transparency with
scrolling in particular.
Avoid any unnecessary scaling
of your graphics content.
And ensure pixel alignment.
Okay, so you learned how to use the
Time Profiler instrument to
optimize startup performance.
You saw how you can use everything
from Activity Monitor to Leaks,
VM Tracker, and Allocations to track
down memory-related issues.
And finally, you learned how to use the
Core Animation instrument to help
you pinpoint graphics problems
in your app so you can fix them
before they go out to customers.
I look forward to seeing the
great apps that you have in store.